Hopefully now you've been able
to set up this new project in
QGIS and you've navigated in
your browser window so that you
can add your materials from the
Geoprocessing Materials folder.
So you should have added in
these four layers into your map
and you can see them on your
layers list.
So we've got these bluey grey
polygons that are representing
the spawning grounds of the
group of fish.
We've got a pink Polygon that
represents Tristina Island and
we've got a purple Polygon
around Tristina Island that
shows us the current no take
zone of the MPA that's around
the island.
And we've also got a Polygon
that's in blue showing us the
territorial seas of Tristina
Island.
So in this video we're going to
be using the Clip geoprocessing
tool so that we can clip the
spawning grounds layer as we're
only interested in the spawning
grounds that are within or
intersecting the territorial
seas of Tristina.
So now let's open up the
Geoprocessing toolbox, go into
the Processing tab and click on
Toolbox and then within this
window search clip into the
search bar and then it's the
first tool at the top, the Clip
tool.
So click on this to open it and
the clip tool is really simple
to run.
We just need our input layer and
an overlay layer.
So the input layer is which
layer we are clipping and so
that's going to be the spawning
grounds.
So you can click on the drop
down box and choose the spawning
grounds layer and then for the
overlay layer.
This is what layer we're going
to use to tell QGIS where to
clip the spawning grounds layer
to.
So this is going to be the
territorial seas Polygon layer
as we're only interested in the
spawnings that are within this
territorial sea Polygon.
And now we just need to choose
where to save the new layer that
this tool is going to create
too.
We'll choose, we'll click on the
three dots and click save to Geo
package.
And now we want to go into the
folder Tristina Island MPA that
we created.
And now we're going to choose
what to name the Geo package
that we're setting up as we
haven't set one up yet.
So we'll just call it the same
name as the project Tristina
Island MPA.
Click save and now we can choose
the name of the new layer that
we're going to create.
So we can call this spawning
clipped and click OK and then
run the tool.
And so now we see that this
layer has come up in our layers
list.
Let's toggle off the original
spawning grounds layer and there
we go.
We can see that QGIS has clipped
the spawning grounds layer,
created the new layer with this
clip data in it and we can just
right click on Tristina
territorial seas layer and zoom
to layer.
And that's how to run the clip
tool in QGIS.
So just remember to hit save to
save your progress.